...was divine.
All would pay...
...homage to him.
Even the great...
...Elven King, Thranduil.
As the great wealth of the Dwarves grew...
...their store of good will ran thin.
No one knows exactly what began the rift.
The Elves say...
...the Dwarves stole their treasure.
The Dwarves tell another tale.
They say the Elf King
refused to give them their rightful pay.
It is sad, Frodo, how old alliances...
...can be broken.
How friendships between peoples
can be lost.
And for what?
Slowly the days turned sour...
...and the watchful nights closed in.
Thror's love of gold...
...had grown too fierce.
A sickness had begun to grow within him.
It was a sickness of the mind.
And where sickness thrives...
...bad things will follow.
The first they heard
was a noise...
...like a hurricane coming down...
...from the North.
The pines on the mountain
creaked and cracked...
...in the hot, dry wind.
Balin, sound the alarm.
Call out the guard. Do it now!
What is it?
Dragon.
Dragon!
He was...
...a firedrake from the North.
Smaug...
...had come.
Such wanton death...
...was dealt that day.
For this city of Men was nothing...
...to Smaug.
His eye...
...was set on another prize.
For dragons...
...covet gold...
...with a dark and...
...fierce desire.
Aah!
No!